[role="xpack"]
[[ml-dfeeds]]
=== {dfeeds-cap}

Machine learning jobs can analyze data that is stored in {es} or data that is
sent from some other source via an API. _{dfeeds-cap}_ retrieve data from {es}
for analysis, which is the simpler and more common scenario.

If you create jobs in {kib}, you must use {dfeeds}. When you create a job, you
select an index pattern and {kib} configures the {dfeed} for you under the
covers. If you use {ml} APIs instead, you can create a {dfeed} by using the
{ref}/ml-put-datafeed.html[create {dfeeds} API] after you create a job. You can
associate only one {dfeed} with each job.

For a description of all the {dfeed} properties, see
{ref}/ml-datafeed-resource.html[Datafeed Resources].

To start retrieving data from {es}, you must start the {dfeed}. When you start
it, you can optionally specify start and end times. If you do not specify an
end time, the {dfeed} runs continuously. You can start and stop {dfeeds} in
{kib} or use the {ref}/ml-start-datafeed.html[start {dfeeds}] and
{ref}/ml-stop-datafeed.html[stop {dfeeds}] APIs. A {dfeed} can be started and
stopped multiple times throughout its lifecycle.

[IMPORTANT]
--
When the {es} {security-features} are enabled, a {dfeed} stores the roles of the
user who created or updated the {dfeed} at that time. This means that if those
roles are updated, the {dfeed} subsequently runs with the new permissions that
are associated with the roles. However, if the userâ€™s roles are adjusted after
creating or updating the {dfeed}, the {dfeed} continues to run with the
permissions that were associated with the original roles.

One way to update the roles that are stored within the {dfeed} without changing
any other settings is to submit an empty JSON document ({}) to the
{ref}/ml-update-datafeed.html[update {dfeed} API].
--

If the data that you want to analyze is not stored in {es}, you cannot use
{dfeeds}. You can however send batches of data directly to the job by using the
{ref}/ml-post-data.html[post data to jobs API].
