[chapter,role="xpack"]
[[machine-learning-intro]]
= What is Elastic {ml-app}?
:keywords: {ml-init}, {stack}
:description: An introduction to the breadth of Elastic {ml-features}.

{ml-cap} features analyze your data and generate models for its patterns of
behavior. The type of analysis that you choose depends on the questions or
problems you want to address and the type of data you have available.

[discrete]
[[machine-learning-unsupervised]]
== Unsupervised {ml}

There are two types of analysis that can deduce the patterns and relationships
within your data without training or intervention: _{anomaly-detect}_ and
_{oldetection}_.

<<ml-ad-overview,{anomaly-detect-cap}>> requires time series data. It constructs
a probability model and can run continuously to identify unusual events as they
occur. The model evolves over time; you can use its insights to forecast future
behavior.

<<ml-dfa-finding-outliers,{oldetection-cap}>> does not require time series data.
It is a type of {dfanalytics} that identifies unusual points in a data set by
analyzing how close each data point is to others and the density of the cluster
of points around it. It does not run continuously; it generates a copy of your
data set where each data point is annotated with an {olscore}. The score
indicates the extent to which a data point is an outlier compared to other data
points.

[discrete]
[[machine-learning-supervised]]
== Supervised {ml}

There are two types of {dfanalytics} that require training data sets:
_{classification}_ and _{regression}_.

In both cases, the result is a copy of your data set where each data point is
annotated with predictions and a trained model, which you can deploy to make
predictions for new data. For more information, refer to
<<ml-supervised-workflow>>.

<<ml-dfa-classification,{classification-cap}>> learns relationships between your
data points in order to predict discrete categorical values, such as whether a
DNS request originates from a malicious or benign domain.

<<ml-dfa-regression,{regression-cap}>> learns relationships between your data
points in order to predict continuous numerical values, such as the response
time for a web request.
